HELLO, EVERYONE,
WELCOME TO THE APRIL 20 25
MEETING IN LET'S TURN TO NOT
GENSETS ON.
>> HELLO EVERYONE.
WELCOME TO THE APRIL TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION.
I AM CHAIRPERSON DAVID ROCHLIN.
THIS MEETING IS STARTING AT
SEVEN 00 ONE P.M. LET'S START
WITH SOME NOTES ABOUT THE
MEETING FORMAT AND THEN WE WILL
BEGIN REMOTE PARTICIPATION IN
THIS MEETING IS AVAILABLE BY
TELEPHONE OR THROUGH ONLINE
VIDEO CONFERENCING.
PLEASE SEE THE MEETING AGENDA
FOR REMOTE PARTICIPATION
CONTACT INFORMATION INCLUDING
PHONE NUMBERS AND THE WEB LINK
TO REQUEST TO SPEAK IF
LISTENING BY PHONE PRESS STAR
NOT IF YOU ARE VIDEO
CONFERENCING.
USE THE RAISE HAND BUTTON CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT A CALLER
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER.
THEN THE SELECTED CALLER WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
PUBLIC COMMENT IS AVAILABLE IN
PERSON OR BY TELEPHONE DURING A
PUBLIC COMMENT AGENDA ITEM AND
DURING EACH PUBLIC HEARING WE
WILL FIRST CALL AN IN-PERSON
INDIVIDUALS TO ADDRESS THE
BOARD AND THEN FROM REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS FINALLY, HERE IS
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SEQUENCE
OF EVENTS FOR EACH HEARING ON
THE AGENDA.
FIRST, PLANNING SERVICES STAFF
WILL DELIVER THEIR REPORT
FOLLOWED BY A REPORT FROM THIS
MONTH'S COMMISSIONER REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL PROVIDE
THEIR PRESENTATION AND ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSIONERS.
AT THAT POINT THE HEARING WILL
BE OPEN FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
FOLLOWING PUBLIC COMMENT THE
COMMISSION WILL MAKE A MOTION
AND DISCUSS THE APPLICATION.
FINALLY, THE APPROVAL FROM A
MAJORITY OF COMMISSIONERS
PRESENT WILL BE REQUIRED FOR A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
TO BE GRANTED.
SO IF WE HAVE TO BORE FIVE OK
SO THAT'S OBVIOUS THEN OK WE'LL
MOVE ON TO B ROLL CALL MISS
THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL COMMISSIONER ROSS
PRESIDENT COMMISSIONER SMITH
PRESENT COMMISSIONER RACHLIN
HERE COMMISSIONER CHILDREN
HERE, COMMISSIONER FORTNER
HERE.
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN YOU HAVE A
QUORUM BUT STEVE KAPLAN
EXPECTED VERY NICE.
THAT'LL BE THE FULL THE FULL
CREW WHICH WILL BE APPRECIATED
.
YEAH.
UM OK SO LET'S MOVE ON TO
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONAL
ADDITIONS, DELETIONS OR CHANGES
TO THE AGENDA THIS MONTH?
>> OK, HEARING AND SEEING NO
OBJECTIONS.
>> THE AGENDA IS APPROVED AS
PRESENTED.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
SO APPROACH THE PODIUM IF
YOU'RE HERE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
PRESS STAR NINE OR HIT THE
RAISE THE HAND BUTTON.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE HERE
PRESENT.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE THERE IS
NOT VERY GOOD.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
EXCUSE I'M NOT SEEING ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS THIS MONTH
SO WE WILL MOVE ON TO F
HEARINGS AND WE'LL GO RIGHT
INTO F ONE FIVE TWENTY SIX
FIFTH STREET.
SO WHENEVER YOU'RE READY
WE'LL
HAVE THE STAFF REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THANK THIS TWO STORY ITALIANATE
HOME WAS PRESENT IN CITY
DIRECTORIES IN 1894 AND COULD
BE OLDER.
>> THE OCCUPANT THIRTY FOUR
FIFTH STREET AT THAT TIME WAS
PAINTER WILLIAM H H BOYLAN WHO
LIVED THERE UNTIL 1914 IN WHICH
YEAR HIS WIFE MARY IS LISTED
ALSO FEATURES TALL NARROW ONE
FOR ONE WINDOWS ARRANGED
SYMMETRICALLY FLAT BOARD TRIM
IN THE FRONT GABLE A WRAPAROUND
FRONT PORCH WITH HALF COLUMNS
THAT WAS ADDED DURING THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE.
MOST OF THE WINDOWS WERE
PREVIOUSLY REPLACED TO STREET
FACING UPPER SASHES THAT YOU
CAN SEE DOWN HERE ON THE PORCH
HAVE BORDERS WITH COLORFUL
SQUARES BUT IT'S NOT KNOWN IF
THESE SASHES ARE ORIGINAL TO
THE HOUSE.
THE UPPER SASHES ARE TALLER
THAN THE LOWER SASHES WHICH
MAKES THEM LOOK A LITTLE BIT
SUSPECT IN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
THE DC OFFICERS ALLOWED STAFF
TO APPROVE CHANGES TO WINDOW
OPENINGS ON THE NON HISTORIC
REAR EDITION OF THE HOUSE WHICH
I'LL SHOW YOU IN JUST A SECOND.
THESE CHANGES ARE REFLECTED ON
THE NEW ELEVATION DRAWINGS IN
THE ATTACHMENTS SO THEY HAVEN'T
BEEN CHANGED YET BUT THEY HAVE
BEEN APPROVED AND THE WORK THAT
IS BEFORE YOU IN THIS
APPLICATION IS TO ADD A BILKO
DOOR AND A STAIRWELL AND THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THE REAR EDITION
AND A COVERED DECK OFF THE BACK
OF THE ADDITION.
ALL RIGHT.
WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE VERY
LOVELY WRAPAROUND FRONT PORCH.
THERE USED TO BE A DOOR HERE
BUT WAS REPLACED WHEN I THINK
IN THE NINETIES YEAR NINETY SIX
WITH A WINDOW
AND THE THE
ADDITION OF THE HOUSE IS IS
ALMOST AS BIG AS THE HOUSE WAS
ORIGINALLY.
>> YOU CAN SEE PRETTY MUCH AT
THERE'S MAYBE WE'LL SEE IT
BETTER IN A MINUTE BUT THERE'S
A THERE'S A PLACE THAT YOU CAN
SEE OTHER DRAWINGS FOR SURE
WHERE YOU CAN JUST DRAW A LINE
DOWN AND EVERYTHING BEHIND IT
IS THIS NEW TWO STOREY
ADDITION.
IT'S LARGE.
IT HAS ALL THIS LITTLE DORMER
TOPPED OUT ON EITHER SIDE.
>> THE OTHER SIDE IS VERY
SIMILAR AND THE BILL CAWDOR
LOCATION WOULD BE HERE.
THERE'S THERE'S A WELL WITHOUT
A WINDOW I'LL SHOW YOU THAT IN
A SECOND.
WE'RE WALKING AROUND NOW.
WE'RE GOING INTO THE BACKYARD.
THERE'S A PATIO IN THE BACK AND
THERE ARE PATIO DOORS, A LITTLE
ENTRY PORCH THAT'S RECESSED
HERE.
>> BUT AGAIN ALL OF THIS IN THE
BACK HERE IS A VERY LARGE
ADDITION GARAGE IS NOT FROM THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE
.
>> THERE'S A BETTER VIEW
OF THAT BACK DOOR AND THE
SLIDER YOU'LL YOU'LL NOTICE
THAT THESE WINDOWS WILL BE
CHANGED QUITE A LOT WHEN YOU
SEE THAT THE PROPOSED DRAWINGS
IN A SECOND NOW WE'VE WALKED
AROUND IN FRONT OF THE GARAGE
WALKING DOWN THE DRIVEWAY.
THIS IS THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
HOUSE AND I'M HAPPY TO REPORT
THAT IN MY OPINION ALL OF THE
CHANGES THAT ARE PROPOSED ARE
VERY FAVORABLE AND VERY
SYMPATHETIC TO THE HOUSE AND
GETTING IT A LITTLE CLOSER TO
WHAT MAYBE SHOULD HAVE HAPPENED
THE FIRST TIME AROUND WHEN ALL
THE WINDOWS REPLACED, THE NEW
OPENINGS WERE PUT IN ETC. SO
HERE YOU CAN SEE FRONT
ELEVATION.
NOTHING IS REALLY HAPPENING ON
THE FRONT ELEVATION AT ALL.
YOU CAN SEE THE NEW BELKO HERE
ON THE SIDE WHICH I LOVE TO
CALL DOROTHEE DOORS.
THIS IS THE SOUTH ELEVATION
HERE.
THERE'S AN EXISTING WELL IT'S
GOT COVER OVER IT RIGHT NOW BUT
THERE'S NO WINDOW THERE.
IT'S IT'S IT'S SORT OF ODD AND
THAT'S WHERE A NEW FOUNDATION
WOULD BE BUILT MORE SUBSTANTIAL
DEEPER BASEMENT DEPTH WITH
STAIRS GOING DOWN INTO THE
BASEMENT AND THE OTHER PIECE
OF WORK IS THE NEW
COVERED LANA'I THAT WOULD COME
OFF THE BACK.
THERE'S A SLIDER IN THE BACK
RIGHT NOW AND I'LL SHOW YOU HOW
THAT WOULD BE MODIFIED.
IT IS IT IS ON A DECK.
>> THE DECKS SQUARE THE THERE
IT'S PRETTY STRAIGHT FORWARD
JUST JUST FAIRLY PLAIN POSTS
WITH A LITTLE BIT OF TRIM ON
THE TOP OF THE BOTTOM ASPHALT
SHINGLES NICE PLACE TO HANG OUT
IN THE SHADE ON THE LEFT WE
HAVE THE REAR ELEVATION, THE
WAY IT LOOKS NOW AND ON THE
RIGHT THESE ARE THE WINDOW
CHANGES THAT HAVE BEEN CHANGED
.
WE'VE GOT TWO NEW WINDOWS ON
THE UPPER STOREY REPLACING THIS
BANK OF WINDOWS.
THIS SLIDER COMES OUT AND A
LARGER SLIDER GOES IN THE OTHER
TWO WINDOWS AND DOORS REMAIN.
YOU CAN ALSO SEE THE BILKO
HERE.
THE BOOK IS INTERESTING.
>> THERE'S AN EIGHTEEN INCH
EXTENDER BEFORE YOU GET TO THE
THE DOORS THE SLANTED PART
WHERE THE DOORS ARE THAT COME
UP THAT'S JUST TO GIVE THEM A
LITTLE MORE ROOM WHICH YOU'LL
SEE IN A MOMENT ON ANOTHER
DRAWING AND NOW WE'RE COMING
BACK AROUND TO THE OTHER SIDE.
WE CAN SEE THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE NIGHT AGAIN SUPER
STRAIGHT FORWARD.
THE GRADE IS A LITTLE BIT WONKY
IN THE BACK.
LET'S SEE.
SO SO THE BOTTOM STEP IS HERE
BUT IT LOOKS LIKE THE GRADE
OVER HERE IS, YOU KNOW, A FOOT
AND A HALF HIGHER BUT MAYBE WE
CAN LOOK AT THE PHOTOGRAPHS IN
A SECOND WHEN THEY COME BACK
AROUND AND CONFIRM THAT THESE
WINDOW CHANGES.
I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT TO A
WINDOW IS COMPLETELY GOING AWAY
HERE.
BUT AGAIN, EVERYTHING FROM HERE
BACK IS NEW WORK.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE NEW
BASEMENT FOUNDATION IS.
ALL OF THIS IN FACT IT MAY BE
LARGER THAN THE ORIGINAL HOUSE
LOOKS PRETTY BIG HERE.
SO THEY'RE TAKING OUT A WINDOW
HERE, TAKING OUT A COUPLE
OF WINDOWS HERE, MOVING ONE
OVER HERE.
BUT THERE ARE NO CHANGES ON THE
HISTORIC PART OF THE HOUSE.
ALL RIGHT.
FOUNDATION PLAN HERE'S THAT
EXISTING A LITTLE WELL AND HERE
IT IS WITH THE STEPS GOING DOWN
INTO THE BASEMENT GROUND FLOOR
AND I COMING OFF THE BACK IT'S
SET IN.
LOOKS LIKE I CAN'T READ THAT.
NO, I THINK IT'S ABOUT FIVE 1/2
FEET MAKING IT ONLY NOMINAL
NOMINALLY IF AT ALL VISIBLE
FROM THE STREET OR SIDEWALK.
HERE'S A SECTION SHOWING THE
NEW STAIRS.
THIS IS A THIS IS A GOOD
ILLUSTRATION.
IT'S GOT THE LITTLE EXTENDER
GOING OUT THAT'S EIGHTEEN
INCHES AND THEN THE DOORS AND
THEN STAIRS GOING DOWN A FEW
MORE PHOTOGRAPHS THAT CAME IN
WITH THE APPLICATION.
>> HERE'S THAT MYSTERIOUS
WINDOW EL I GUESS SOMEONE
CHANGE THEIR MIND ABOUT HAVING
A WINDOW THERE
.
ALL RIGHT.
LET ME LOOK AT MY NOTES BEFORE
I GO THROUGH THE GUIDELINES
THAT BILL CO HATCH OOPS THE THE
DOORS ARE POLYETHYLENE I GUESS
THE I'M SORRY I GUESS THE BELKO
DRAWINGS DIDN'T MAKE IT INTO
THE SLIDESHOW BUT YOU HAVE THEM
IN YOUR POCKET THE DOOR
DIMENSIONS ARE FIFTY SIX INCHES
WIDE BY SEVENTY THREE INCHES
DEEP IN A NINETEEN POINT FIVE
INCHES TALL AND THAT FOUNDATION
THAT YOU SAW FOR THE BILL
CO RIGHT HERE IS ABOUT SIX FEET
BY EIGHT FEET.
THE DECK FOR THE LANAI IS TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY TWO SQUARE
FEET IT'S EIGHTEEN AND A HALF
BY TWELVE FEET IT'S LESS THAN
30 FEET THIRTY FEET 30 INCHES
FROM THE GROUND SO IT DOESN'T
HAVE A RAILING OR STAIRS SHOWN
AND ALL RIGHT.
REALLY I THINK THAT ALL OF THIS
WORK IS COMPATIBLE WITH THE
GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS THAT
I'M ABOUT TO READ TO YOU FROM
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS TO REHABILITATION
STANDARD TO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF HISTORIC MATERIALS
OR ALTERATION OF FEATURES AND
SPACES THAT CHARACTERIZE A
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSIVE SIZE, SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT, NO.10 SAYS NEW
ADDITIONS AND ADJACENT OR
RELATED NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL
BE UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FORM AND
INTEGRITY OF THE HISTORIC
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT
WOULD BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR AS
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATION
OF BUILDING SITES RECOMMENDED
DESIGN A NEW EXTERIOR EDITION
TO A HOUSE SORRY TO A HISTORIC
BUILDING OR ADJACENT NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE WHICH
PRESERVES THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A BUILDING
OR BUILDINGS, LANDSCAPE
FEATURES AND OPEN SPACE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW LANDSCAPE
FEATURES INCLUDING PLANT
MATERIAL THAT ARE VISUALLY
INCOMPATIBLE THE SITE OR THAT
ALTERS OR DESTROYS THE HISTORIC
SITE PATTERNS OF VISITORS FROM
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
RESIDENTIAL PORCHES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL A
NEW PORCH AN ENTRANCE ON
SECONDARY NATIONS.
THIS MAY BE APPROPRIATE IF IT
DOES NOT DIMINISH THE
BUILDING'S ARCHITECTURAL
CHARACTER AND THE DESIGN
OF MATERIALS ARE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE BUILDING AND A SITE
FOR RESIDENTIAL DECKS AND
PORCHES.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL A
DECK IN THE REAR OF THE
PROPERTY THAT IS SUBORDINATE IN
PROPORTION INSTALL DECK THAT IS
FREESTANDING AND INSTALL
FLOORING MADE OF WOOD OR
COMPOSITE.
ALL RIGHT.
I THINK THAT'S ALL I GOT.
STEPH DOES RECOMMEND APPROVAL
OF THIS APPLICATION AND THINKS
THAT IT DOES MEET ALL THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES AND
THE WORK IS NOT INTRUSIVE TO
THE HOUSE
OR THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND STAFF APPRECIATES THE
WINDOW CHANGES ESPECIALLY ON
THE ADDITIONS BECAUSE THEY WILL
BE A LITTLE MORE IN KEEPING
WITH THE STYLE.
BUT THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MISS THATCHER.
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT COMMISSIONERS
CALDERON AND KAPLIN WERE ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
>> WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION?
I THOUGHT IT WAS A I FOUND THAT
TO BE A PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD
PROJECT ESPECIALLY IN THE BACK
.
AS FOR THE BELKO, THE ALLEYWAY
IS APPROXIMATELY 30 FEET.
THE BLOCK ONLY EXTENDS EIGHT
FEET.
IT WOULD TAKE UP LITTLE LITTLE
ONE THIRD OF THE WIDTH OF THE
ALLEY BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND THE
HOUSE TO ITS ITS ITS RIGHT BUT
YEAH I FOUND IT TO BE A PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD THANK YOU.
YEAH.
I'M GOING TO SORT OF REINFORCE
WHAT BEN SAID THE THE THE LAND
AREA BETWEEN THIS HOUSE THE
NEIGHBORING HOUSE IS ALMOST ALL
PART OF THIS PROPERTY.
THE PROPERTY LINE IS SO IT
DOESN'T REALLY ENCROACH ON
NEIGHBORING PROPERTY.
THIS THIS BILL ECUADOR IS IN
THE IN THE REAR THIRTY PERCENT
OF THE HOUSE WHICH IS FAR AWAY
FROM THE ROAD THE SIDEWALK AS
YOU COULD CONCEIVABLY GET
ECHOING WHAT JILL SAID, YOU
KNOW, REPLACING THE EXISTING
WINDOWS ON THE BACK.
I THINK A GREAT POSITIVE
CONTRIBUTION TO THE HOUSE AND
THE LOVELY DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
IT'S POINTLESS IF ANYTHING IT'S
GOING TO ADD SOMETHING IN TERMS
OF TEXTURE TO THE HOUSE.
I DON'T GET ANYTHING HERE IT
ATTRACTS I SUPPORT IT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT PRESENTATION.
>> SO THE APPLICANT IS THE
APPLICANT HERE SO YOU GREAT WE
PLEASE APPROACH THE PODIUM.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
PLEASE STATE YOUR YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
YOU'VE GOT UP TO FIVE MINUTES
TO SPEAK ABOUT WHAT YOU'VE
HEARD AND GIVE US YOUR
PRESENTATION IF YOU HAVE ONE.
>> THANK MS.
DONALD BLACK MY RESIDENCE IS
ONE NINE NINE ONE MAIN STREET
SARASOTA, FLORIDA THREE FOUR
TWO THREE SIX IF YOU IF THAT'S
HELPFUL, WE REALLY APPRECIATE
THE TIME THAT THE COMMITTEE HAS
TAKEN AT THAT.
WE HAVE A LOT OF TIES TO TO
MICHIGAN.
I WENT TO SCHOOL HERE.
I WAS ON FACULTY AT THE MEDICAL
SCHOOL FOR A WHILE.
MY UNCLE WAS AN ARCHITECT SO WE
WE REALLY WANT TO COME BACK TO
ANN ARBOR AND FIX UP A HOUSE IN
THE WEST SIDE SO WE APPRECIATE
THE REPORT.
DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
EXPLANATION FOR WHAT WE'RE
DOING OTHER THAN THAT.
BUT WE REALLY ALSO THE STAFF
MOVED EVERYTHING AS QUICKLY AS
WE FELT COULD BE DONE.
>> GREAT.
I JUST HOLD ON ONE SEC.
I WANT TO SEE IF THERE'S ANY
QUESTIONS FROM THE COMMISSION
HERE ON AND JUST OUT
OF CURIOSITY JUST OUT
OF CURIOSITY THE CONTRACTOR ON
SITE THE BILL COULD OR WOULD BE
MADE OF METAL BUT THE MATERIALS
WILL BE MADE OF POLYPROPYLENE.
THE I THINK HE'S MY
UNDERSTANDING OF IT.
I'M LOOKING IS THAT THE
CYLINDER IS METAL.
I SEE THE DOORS ARE
POLYPROPYLENE.
THEY ALSO COME IN METAL.
WE HAVEN'T PURCHASED ONE YET SO
I DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL END UP
BEING BUT THAT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING.
OK SO OK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
I HAD A QUESTION AND THE SORRY
LET ME GET TO MY NOTES HERE AND
THE LET'S SEE IT WAS PROBABLY
ON THE FLOOR PLAN DRAWINGS ON
THE SECOND FLOOR PLAN.
>> I JUST HAD A QUESTION ABOUT
ONE OF THE NOTES IT WAS CURIOUS
AND I JUST WOULD LIKE SOME
FURTHER EXPLANATION IF I CAN.
>> YES PLEASE.
SO TOWARDS THE HISTORIC YOU
KNOW, THE EAST SIDE OF THE
HOUSE THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
THERE ARE NOT NEW MAIN FOR GO
TO THE NEXT ONE SO SO THERE
WERE TWO WINDOWS THAT IT IS
WHERE'S THE SECOND FLOOR?
IT'S NOT IN THE SLIDESHOW.
OK, I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE TO SAY I
THINK YEAH.
OK SO I CAN REMEMBER THERE'S
TWO EXISTING WINDOWS I BELIEVE
THEY'RE IN BATHROOMS WHERE
YOU'RE CALLING OUT INSULATE AND
DRYWALL THE INTERIOR OF THE
WINDOW.
SO I'M JUST CURIOUS ABOUT THAT.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IT'S GOING TO
LOOK LIKE FROM THE OUTSIDE
WHICH IS WHAT WE'RE REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT AND WHAT WHAT
IS THE LIKE TELL ME A LITTLE
MORE ABOUT WHAT THAT PLAN
TRYING TO PUT WILL ESSENTIALLY
BE THREE BATHROOMS IN THE
UPSTAIRS WHERE EVEN THOUGH IT'S
A PRETTY LARGE UPSTAIRS BECAUSE
OF WHERE THE WINDOWS ARE
LOCATED WOULD HAVE TWO WINDOWS
IN EACH BATHROOM AND SO THAT'S
JUST TOO MUCH TO FIT EVERYTHING
ELSE IN.
BUT OBVIOUSLY WE NEED TO KEEP
THE WINDOWS ON THE OUTSIDE THE
BUILDER WHO'S WORKING ON THIS
HOUSE IN A FARMHOUSE IN
PINCKNEY AND IS FAMILIAR WITH
WHERE HE HAS HIS HOUSE.
HE HAS A DRY WALL BEHIND IT AND
THEN IT'S PAINTED IN THE BACK.
SO IT LOOKS THAT IT'S FROM THE
OUTSIDE AS THOUGH IT'S A NORMAL
WINDOW BUT YOU KNOW, JUST DARK
AND THEN BUT THEN FROM THE
INSIDE IT'S DRYWALL TO CROSS
FLESH.
>> SO IT'S IT'S PAINTED LIKE A
DARK COLOR OR SOMETHING.
SO IT WENT OK.
ALL RIGHT.
AND ARE THOSE WINDOWS THOSE
MUST BE REPLACEMENT WINDOWS AM
I RIGHT OR ARE THOSE
HISTORICALLY YEAH.
I BELIEVE ALL THE OR THE ONES
ON THE HOUSE WITH THE POSSIBLE
EXCEPTION OF SEVEN TO FRONT
ASHES OK YEAH JUST ONE WE'VE
ALREADY HAD A RESTORE THAT WAS
RECOMMENDED BY THE COMMISSION
ALLEN COME OUT HE'S LOOKED AT
THE WINDOWS THAT TO BE AND
THEY'RE FIXING THOSE WINDOWS HE
DOESN'T THINK THOSE TWO
PARTICULAR WINDOWS ARE EIGHTY
EIGHTY THREE WINDOWS WHICH IS
WHEN THE NEWSPAPER THAT WAS ON
THE WALLS CAME OFF.
SO THAT'S WE THINK THE HOUSE
WAS ACTUALLY BUILT WE WORKING
WITH THE BENTLEY TO TRY TO SEE
IF THEY COULD BE PRESERVED AND
SO FORTH.
BUT THEY WERE THAT THAT WAS THE
EIGHTY THREE THOUSAND IN
NINETEEN FOURTEEN AS YOU
MENTIONED THAT THEY BUILT THE
STONE WALL AROUND IT.
APPARENTLY THE GERMAN OWNER DID
A LOT OF THE STONE WALLS IN THE
AREA AT THAT TIME AND THAT'S
WHEN THEY KEEP THEY MAY PUT IN
THOSE WINDOWS.
OK THERE'S CLEARLY ALSO AND
OTHER WORK DONE THAT MAYBE
WASN'T ON THE LIST THAT WE'RE
FINDING NOW IS WE'VE GONE INTO
THE BUILDING BUT EVERYTHING
THAT'S ALL THE OLD WINDOWS
OBVIOUSLY WE WERE JUST GETTING
PRESERVED BUT SOME OF THE
OTHERS ARE, YOU KNOW, METAL
FRAMED AND OR SINGLE PANE OR
FINAL CLAD SORRY.
SO OK, GREAT.
I'M NOT AN ARCHITECT OR
BUILDERS.
I KNOW THAT THAT'S OK.
YOU'RE HERE IS THE APPLICANT SO
YOU ANSWER THE QUESTIONS OR GET
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR DONALD.
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH VERY
MUCH.
>> WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS THIS
ITEM SO THIS THIS THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS OPEN FOR FIVE TWENTY
SIX THIS STREET I DON'T SEE
ANYONE APPROACHING THE PODIUM
HERE.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE CALLING IN?
>> WE DO NOT VERY GOOD.
SO NOW WE CAN CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS APPLICATION
AND I WILL ASK IF THERE IS A
COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS ITEM SO
OK, THANK YOU.
I MOVE THIS COMMISSION APPROVED
THE APPLICATION AT FIVE TWENTY
SIX FIFTH STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A BASEMENT STAIRWELL WITH HILCO
DOORS AND A COVERED DECK AS
PROPOSED THE WORKERS COMPATABLE
AND EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOOD AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS PARTICULARLY
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN AND
THE GUIDANCE FOR GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING AND
ENTRANCES AND PORCHES FURTHER
IT ALSO MEETS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT GUIDELINES
FOR RESIDENTIAL DOORS AND
RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPE FEATURES
SECOND GRADE THAT WAS MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER SMITH AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER FORTNER.
DO WE HAVE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION?
>> NO ONE WANTS TO SAY THE WORD
LENNI OH JUST OK.
NOT IN A MILLION YEARS.
RIGHT OK I SUPPOSE THERE'S NO
DISCUSSION BECAUSE IT'S IT'S IT
IS A SORT OF STRAIGHTFORWARD
APPLICATION TO THE APPLICATION
ITSELF WAS EXTREMELY THOROUGH
WHICH IS ALWAYS HELPFUL.
SO WE KNEW EXACTLY WHAT WAS
GOING ON HERE AND IT SEEMS LIKE
WE ALL BELIEVE THAT IT MEETS
THE STANDARDS.
SO LET'S JUST GO TO A VOTE THEN
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
>> YES.
>> ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES I SAID YES.
I THINK FOR THE RECORD THE
MOTION CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION
HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST RECEIVE
THE REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT AND WORK IN THE PERMITS
MUST MATCH WHAT WAS APPROVED BY
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT MISSION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GOOD LUCK.
OK
WELL THAT'S IT FOR HEARINGS
TODAY SO WE CAN JUST MOVE RIGHT
INTO NEW BUSINESS WHICH WE DO
HAVE SOME NEW BUSINESS TO
DISCUSS WITH EXCUSE ME ONE
DESIGN GUIDELINES ASSIGNMENT
AND REVIEW
IT.
I WILL SHARE MY SCREEN ONE
MOMENT PLEASE.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT CHAPTER
FIVE COMMERCIAL DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR HISTORIC
COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES AND I
THINK WE HAVE SOME COMMENTS IN
HERE.
>> I'LL SCROLL THROUGH.
WE HAVE SOME QUESTIONS AND THEN
IF ANYONE HAS ANYTHING ELSE
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO STOP ME.
UM, JUST STARTING OUT BOTH JOE
AND COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HAD
QUESTIONS ABOUT DEFINITIONS I
DID CHECK CORTEZ'S THEY ARE IN
THE GLOSSARY IN THE APPENDIX
THAT WE'LL GET TO BUT WE SHOULD
PROBABLY IN GENERAL CHECK
AGAINST ALL OF THE TERMS TO
MAKE SURE THAT EVERYTHING THAT
NEEDS TO BE DEFINED IS DEFINED.
UM, SO WE'LL LOOK AT EVERYTHING
ELSE AS WE KIND OF GO THROUGH.
>> BUT CORNICES ARE THERE.
I THINK TO ME IT JUST SEEMED A
LITTLE I WAS SURPRISED THAT IT
WAS SO SPECIFIC.
I MEAN OBVIOUSLY WE WANT TO GET
TO THE SPECIFIC THINGS BUT WHEN
I THINK OF COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES LIKE I'M THINKING
OF THE ENTIRE USUALLY FACADE
OF THE BUILDING THAT CONTAINS
PROBABLY WINDOWS, MAYBE A
CORNICE, MAYBE OTHER BRACKETT'S
DETAILS AND THEN THE STORE
FRONT IS LIKE YEAH.
>> SO I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S JUST
LIKE THE WINDOWS STUFF WAS
ALREADY DISCUSSED SO IT'S NOT
REPEATED.
I WOULD SAY IN GENERAL THIS
CHAPTER WAS LIKE REALLY CLEAR
LIKE WAY MORE CLEAR THAN THE
OTHER ONES BUT THAT WAS LIKE
THE ONE THING THAT LIKE THE BIG
PICTURE IT DIDN'T TALK ABOUT
THE FACADE AT ALL.
>> YEAH I NOTICED THAT TOO.
YEAH.
IN THE LIKE HOW WE USUALLY HAVE
THE THE DRAWING THAT HAS NO ONE
TO POINT OUT THOSE PARTS CUT
LIKE THAT.
YEAH YEAH.
BECAUSE IT DOES DO IT FOR
STOREFRONTS I THINK BUT JUST
FOR THE GENERAL YEAH YEAH YEAH
YEAH ESPECIALLY FOR OUR
DOWNTOWN THE COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS I MEAN A LOT OF TIMES
THE STOREFRONT HAS ALREADY BEEN
CHANGED AND THE ONLY THING THAT
IS HISTORIC IS YOU KNOW THE
REST OF IT.
IT WOULD ALSO BE GOOD TO
EXPLAIN BAZ IN A MULTIPART
BUILDING OK SORT OF TALK ABOUT
PROPORTIONS BECAUSE WE OFTEN
HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE WHOLE
DOG AND PONY SHOW WHEN SOMEONE
WANTS TO ADD A FLOOR ON THE TOP
AND WE CAN'T DECIDE HOW FAR TO
PUSH BACK AND THEN WE HAVE THE
SAME DISCUSSION THAT WE ALWAYS
HAVE EVERY TIME.
SO WE COULD JUST PUT IT IN HERE
.
YEAH, BUT THAT SET IT BACK THE
WIDTH OF BAY, THAT SORT
OF THING.
>> YEAH.
AND I THINK WE HAVE HAD LIKE A
SECOND STORY WORK WHERE IT'S
IT'S SORT OF AN OBVIOUS LIKE
LET'S SAY THERE'S THREE BAYS IN
THE BUILDING AND YOU KNOW THREE
VERTICAL BAYS ALSO.
YEAH.
AND THEY MAYBE WANT TO DO
SOMETHING WEIRD THAT'S NOT KIND
OF ALIGNING WITH THAT.
I'M SURE THERE'S APPROPRIATE
THINGS AND THERE'S NOT
APPROPRIATE THINGS WHEN ADDING
I DIDN'T THINK OF THAT UNTIL
YOU SAID YES JUST NOW.
YEAH THERE SHOULD BE SOMETHING
ABOUT ALIGNING WITH VERTICAL
AND HORIZONTAL ELEMENTS OF THE
BUILDING OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT, RIGHT?
YEAH
RIGHT
.
DON'T THINK THERE WAS MUCH FOR
KIND OF INTRODUCTION AND
DEFINITIONS OF STOREFRONTS
SUGGESTS INCLUDING PHOTOS.
I THINK THAT GENERALLY
THROUGHOUT MORE PHOTOS, MORE
DRAWINGS OR BETTER BETTER
PHOTOS, BETTER DRAWING.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF WE HAVE ANY
EARLY 19TH CENTURY STOREFRONTS
LEFT.
I CAN THINK OF A FEW MID AND
LATE BUT I WAS WONDERING ABOUT
THAT.
YEAH, WE SHOULD TAKE A LOOK.
>> THAT WOULD BE SO THAT WOULD
BE THE IDEAL TRIP OK.
I MEAN THE QUESTION WOULD BE
WHAT YOU SAID EARLY TWENTIETH
CENTURY THAT WOULD BE THE
PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE LIKE ARE
THERE ANY STORE FRONTS WHERE
SOME PART OF THE STOREFRONT IS
ACTUALLY WITHIN THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANT WELL YOU TAKE A
PICTURE YES.
THERE ARE THERE WONDERING IF
THERE ARE ANY THAT ARE EARLY
19TH CENTURY EARLY NINETEEN
CENTURY THERE ARE CERTAINLY
1850 TO TO NINETEEN HUNDRED.
OK GOOD A COUPLE OF INTACT ONES
AND A COUPLE OF PIECES YOU KNOW
BUT I DON'T KNOW IF I DON'T
THINK WE HAVE ANYTHING THAT
LOOKS LIKE THAT TOP
ILLUSTRATION BUT WE SHOULD
CHECK IT OUT.
>> BUT IS THAT JUST A
CURIOSITY?
>> I MEAN I DO THINK IT'S
HELPFUL TO SEE THE EVOLUTION
YEAH.
OF STOREFRONTS HERE TO HELP YOU
THINK ABOUT DATING YOUR
STOREFRONT IF YOU'RE NOT SURE.
YEAH.
THAT'S TRUE
.
RIGHT.
AND THEN WE HAVE STORE FRONT
ELEMENTS OF A QUESTION ABOUT
THIS ONE.
ERM SO DOES OUR COMMISSION I
MEAN WHEN IT COMES TO THE
PLACEMENT OF SIGNS SIGNAGE
THAT'S FOR JOE AS MARIA IS IT
KIND OF THE REQUIREMENT FIRST
WHERE YOU WANT TO PUT THE SIGN
IN THE ACTUAL LIKE THE NATURAL
SIGN BAND AREA OF A STOREFRONT
IF THERE IS ONE YES OK IT GOES
SO THEN ERM LOOKING AT THIS
DIAGRAM OR SO IS IS THE CORNER
IS THAT IS A STOREFRONT MEANT
TO BE COURTICE THE CORTAZAR
LIKE I'M SORRY THE SIGN THEN IS
THAT MEANT TO BE NUMBER FOUR OR
SO THIS ILLUSTRATION DOESN'T
HAVE THAT SIGN BAND AND I THINK
THAT THAT SIGN BAND HAS EVOLVED
FROM NUMBER NINE THE OR WE CALL
IT THE TRANSOM WHICH IN ON MOST
OF OUR DOWNTOWN BUILDINGS HAS
BEEN FILLED IN AND NOW IT'S
JUST NOW IT'S WHERE YOU PUT THE
SIGN YOU THERE ARE A FEW YOU
KNOW THOSE COOL GLASS BLOCK
REFRACTING BLOCK THE TOURISM
THAT STILL EXISTS BUT YOU AND
AND THERE ARE ALSO A FEW WHERE
IF THEY DO HAVE THESE ELEMENTS
THEY HAVE TO GET A LITTLE CRAZY
TO TRY TO PUT A SIGN THE
BUILDING YEAH.
>> I WAS GOING TO ASK LIKE IN
THE ONE ON SOUTH STATE STREET
WHERE THEY COULDN'T HAVE A FLAT
SIGN.
THERE'S JUST NO PLACE TO PUT
IT.
SO YOU KNOW, ARM COMES OUT AND
THEN TIES BACK DOWN IN AND IT'S
A STRANGE TRIANGULAR SIGN AND
IT ENDS UP BEING LIKE A BLADE
SIGN IN THESE TIMES OF YEAH OK
YEAH OK.
>> ON THE SAME PAGE WE SHOULD
PROBABLY HAVE AN ILLUSTRATION
OF PROPER PLACES TO PUT A SIGN
RIGHT.
YEAH WE CAN DO THEM.
YEAH BECAUSE IN THIS ONE I
WOULD I GUESS IT WOULD BE LIKE
THE COLUMN AND IT WOULD AND I
WOULD BE LOOKING FOR LIKE A
BLADE SIGN OR SOMETHING I DON'T
KNOW LIKE YEAH I LIKE LIKE THE
LITTLE PEDESTRIAN SCALE SIGN IT
WOULD BE EASY.
YEAH.
ONE THE COLUMNS OR YEAH.
OR ON THE THE INNER I'M SURE
THE OUTER EDGES BUT YEAH YOU'D
BE FOR THIS IF THEY REALLY WERE
OUT OF SIGHT OF THIS WE'D HAVE
TO LOOK ABOVE THE CORNERS AND
SEE WHAT'S GOING ON UP THERE
AND IF THERE'S WINDOWS THE WAY
IT JUST MIGHT NOT HAPPEN.
RIGHT BUT THERE MIGHT BE A BIG
ENOUGH SPACE BUT BUILDING
SPECIFIC YOU SEE I THINK YOU
CAN STRIKE MY COMMENT THERE I
WAS UNDER THE IMPRESSION THAT
THERE WAS MORE OF THE HISTORIC
OF GLASS TILE IN THE TRANSOM.
WE LOOK AT THE ARCADE LIKE ON
MAIN STREET THERE'S A FEW
STOREFRONTS THAT HAVE THE GLASS
TILE IN THE TRANSIT UP IN THE
TRANSOM.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS MORE
PREVALENT.
I THINK THAT THAT'S WORTH
MENTIONING IN THE APPROPRIATE
AND NOT APPROPRIATE.
APPROPRIATE IS KEEPING IT.
YES OR REPLACING IT WHERE IT
USED TO BE.
OK, NOT APPROPRIATE IS BORING
OVERHEAD OR DESTROYING IT.
WHY ARE YOU DOING WORK ON YOUR
STOREFRONT IF IT'S ALREADY OVER
THAT SORT OF THING SO COVERING
DISTINCTIVE CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES THIS STORE IT'S
PROBABLY ALREADY COVERED BY
SOMETHING BUT RIGHT TRANSOMS
ARE KIND OF SPECIAL SO IT MIGHT
BE KIND OF GOOD TO POINT SHOW
RIGHT
.
I JUST HAD A QUESTION IF WE
WANTED TO INCLUDE SOMETHING
SPECIFIC ABOUT OPACITY I KNOW
THAT THERE'S SOME ZONING NOT
SURE EXACTLY WHAT IT IS.
SO I GUESS MY QUESTION IS DO WE
WANT TO SAY SOMETHING?
IS IT WORTH SAYING SOMETHING
SPECIFIC IN EITHER APPROPRIATE
OR NOT APPROPRIATE FOR
PREFERENCES OR OPACITY OR JUST
GO WITH WHAT THE ZONING
REGULATION?
AH I DON'T THINK IT WOULD HURT
TO POINT OUT THAT WE WANT CLEAR
GLASS.
I ALSO DON'T I CAN'T THINK
OF ANYONE WHO'S EVER PROPOSED
SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
YEAH, BUT IT SEEMS YOU
COVER YOUR OWN COMMERCIAL WELL
BUT WE'VE HAD ISSUES INSTANCES
I SHOULD SAY WHERE LIKE MAYBE A
YOU KNOW LIKE IT'S NOT ACTUALLY
THERE IN A COMMERCIAL SPACE BUT
IT'S SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS OR
SOMETHING, YOU KNOW, AND THEY
MAYBE DON'T WANT
MAYBE THE
THIRD FROM THE BOTTOM UNDER NOT
APPROPRIATE SAYS USING
REFLECTIVE GLASS ARE FORCED
FROM THE BOTTOM THAT MAKES IT
DIFFICULT FOR PEDESTRIANS TO
SEE INTO THE STOREFRONT.
MAYBE THAT COULD JUST SAY USING
NOT NON CLEAR OR REFLECTIVE
GLASS.
I MEAN MY MY PREFERENCE IF I'M
USING THIS I WANT TO SEE IT.
THERE'S ONLY ONE THAT'S YOU
KNOW LIKE WE SHOULD BE PUTTING
STUFF IN HERE THAT'S REFLECTING
THE LANGUAGE OF OUR OUR
AUDIENCE AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE SO
THAT THERE'S LESS GOING BACK
AND FORTH BETWEEN THIS AND THE
ZONING, YOU KNOW, RIGHT.
>> UNLESS WE WANT CLEAR GLASS
AND IT DOESN'T SAY THE GLASS
ITSELF, RIGHT?
WELL, I WOULD SAY IN THAT CASE
THEN LET'S HAVE THE ORDINANCE
SAY WE'RE GLASS OR BUT THIS IS
HISTORIC DISTRICT VERSUS ZONING
FOR HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND WHAT
YOU CAN DO FOR BASICALLY GROUP
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND CHIP
THAT'S A GOOD POINT THAT BEFORE
THIS WHOLE THING GETS FINALIZED
WE NEED TO YES.
COMPARE IT TO THE ZONING AND
SIGN CODE AND BUILD HEIGHTS AND
EVERYTHING ELSE.
ULTIMATELY I'M TALKING ABOUT
THIS FROM A USABILITY
STANDPOINT WHICH IS YOU KNOW,
IF I HAVE TO PAGE THREE
DOCUMENT AND HAVE TO KEEP GOING
BACK THROUGH DIFFERENT SECTIONS
OF THE ZONING CODE , I'M MUCH
MORE LIKELY TO DESIGN SOMETHING
THAT HAS A CONFLICT IN THERE.
AND YOU KNOW, THE ANN ARBOR
CYCLE OF CONFLICTS THAT NEVER
ENDS AND YEAH, REALLY MAKES
PEOPLE CRAZY LIKE LET'S TRY TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO MINIMIZE THAT
AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
BUT I ALSO THINK ABOUT WHAT
WE'RE DOING HERE LIKE SHOULD BE
EASILY LIKE IF THE CITY WERE TO
SAY YOU KNOW WHAT WE WE WANT
OUR WE WANT TO CODIFY OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND FORM
BASE CODES THAT WE SHOULD BE
ABLE TO JUST LIFT A LOT OF THIS
STUFF AND PUT IT RIGHT INTO A
FORM BASE.
CAN YOU DEFINE THAT TERM FOR ME
PLEASE?
FORM BASE CODE .
YES, PLEASE.
SO IT IS IT IS RIGHT NOW WE
TALK ABOUT BUILDING HEIGHT
PLACEMENT AND RELATIONSHIP TO
THE STREET BUT THAT'S ABOUT IT
LIKE IN A FORM BASE CODE WE CAN
SAY LIKE YOU ARE YOU YOUR
BUILDING NEEDS TO HAVE THESE
ELEMENTS IN THESE AREAS LIKE
YOU KNOW, BE VERY PRESCRIPTIVE
ABOUT IT WHICH I THINK THE MORE
WE ARE ABLE TO TALK IN TERMS
OF WHAT BUILDINGS LOOK LIKE AND
HOW THEY RELATE TO THE
BUILDINGS ABOUT IT, THE LESS
CONTROVERSY THERE IS ABOUT
BUILDING EVOLUTION AND IN OUR
SO IT'S A LITTLE BIT MORE
COMPLICATED BUT IT'S A LITTLE
BIT EASIER TO DESIGN IT WOULD
CERTAINLY BE A LOVELY IDEA TO
HAVE ZONING BE CONSISTENT WITH
WHAT THE DC DOES RIGHT IN ITS
FORMED BASE EDNESS I MEAN THERE
ARE ALWAYS GOING TO BE SOME
CONFLICTS I THINK I'VE NEVER
SEEN ANY ZONING CODE THAT'S
COMPLETELY CAPTURE DC DESIGN
GUIDELINES BUT WE CAN DO BETTER
FOR SURE.
I MEAN I THINK THE OTHER THING
IS YOU KNOW YOU WANT TO MAKE
EVERYTHING DEFENSIBLE YOU KNOW
SO YOU NEED TO MAKE IT AS
CONSISTENT WITH THE ORDINANCE
AS POSSIBLE THAT HASN'T REALLY
BEEN AN ISSUE WITH WELL I GUESS
THE THING IS I GUESS THE THINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN YEAH.
YEAH.
THAT MAYBE THAT MY EXAMPLES ARE
NOT GOOD ONE IS CLEAR GLASS IS
HISTORIC.
>> RIGHT.
AND THAT'S IN THE STANDARDS BUT
THEN THE ZONING SAYS YOU CAN
HAVE ANY KIND OF GLASS YOU WANT
BUT THIS IS THE STANDARD YOU'RE
DESIGNATED TO START.
SURE.
WHICH IT PROBABLY DOES
SOMEWHERE IN THE DOCUMENT.
YEAH MAYBE NOT IN THE GLASS
SECTION BUT BUT THAT'S WHERE
YOU'D WANT TO WANT TO PUT IT IS
YOU KNOW IN YOU KNOW THE FOUR
DOWNTOWN STUFF IN THE D ONE
SECTION, YOU KNOW, GROUND FLOOR
NEEDS TO HAVE, YOU KNOW, CLEAR
GLASS.
>> WELL THERE WILL PROBABLY
HAVE A COMPLETE ZONING
ORDINANCE REWRITE IN A COUPLE
OF YEARS.
SO THAT'S OUR CHANCE.
GREAT EXAMPLES WERE THE
HISTORIC THE ORIGINAL GLASS
ISN'T CLEAR WHERE WE BE ASKING
FOR IT.
TO BE CLEAR, IT WAS ALREADY
CROSSED OVER SEATED OR
PRISONLIKE PRISONLIKE IF IF THE
GLASS WAS WAVY AND CLEARLY OLD
IT WOULD BE PART OF THE
HISTORIC FABRIC OF THE BUILDING
.
SO BUT LIKE LIKE DOWNTOWN
VIRTUALLY ALL THE GLASS HAS
BEEN REPLACED DOWNTOWN SO YEAH
ALTHOUGH I'LL BE ON THE LOOKOUT
FOR ANY THAT'S NOT WHEN WE DO
OUR TOUR OF STOREFRONTS IF ANY
OF YOU WOULD LIKE TO JOIN US
YOU KNOW I'M THINKING ABOUT IT
IN OUR THEN JUST REMOVING THE
LAST ONE IN APPROPRIATE BECAUSE
IT'S COVERED ALREADY BY OTHERS.
YEAH.
AND THEN ADDING SOME SPECIFICS
IN NOT APPROPRIATE FOR REMOVING
THE RECESSION OF AN ARCADE OR
STOREFRONT AND ALSO REMOVING
ANY OF THE FINISHES THAT WOULD
BE IN RECESSED ENTRY WAYS
MARIJANA I'M NOT SURE WHY BUT
LIKE THIS THIS PAGE IS A
PARTICULAR EXAMPLE.
YEAH IT'S IT'S NOT IMPOSSIBLE
TO READ AND YOU CAN'T MOVE IT
AND YOU CAN'T MOVE IT.
>> IT GETS ANGRY WHEN YOU MOVE
IT BECAUSE IT THINKS YOU'RE
EDITING IT IN THE WAY I SOLVED
IT WAS JUST I OPENED UP THE
ACTUAL STANDARDS LIKE THE PDF
AND IT WAS FINE.
YEAH BUT IT'S THERE CERTAIN
EDITS AND STUFF LIKE THAT THAT
JUST DIDN'T YEAH THEY'RE
IMPOSSIBLE TO READ BECAUSE
THEY'RE LIKE OFF THE PAGE.
>> YEAH THAT'S NOT EVERY PAGE
IS LIKE THIS BUT SOMETIMES THIS
HAPPENS I DON'T KNOW SO WEIRD I
IT'S SOMETHING YOU COULD JUST
DOCUMENT THINGS SO THE
FORMATTING GETS MESSED UP.
OK WELL YEAH THANK YOU FOR
LETTING ME KNOW I'LL LET I'LL
LET IT AND SEE IF THEY KNOW
WHEN WE'RE SENDING OUT NEXT
MONTH'S BECAUSE YEAH IF YOU
CAN'T READ THEM THERE'S NO
POINT IT'S NOT EVERY PAGE BUT I
THINK IT'S WHEN YOU HAVE THESE
BIG LIKE FLOATING TEXT SECTIONS
AND THEY THEY GET STUFF.
>> YEAH I DON'T KNOW WHY OK ALL
RIGHT UM NOTHING PROPOSED FOR
COMMERCIAL ENTRIES NO ISSUES
THERE
.
>> I WAS WONDERING THE ROLL
DOWN SECURITY GRILLS THAT
LOOKED LIKE MAYBE THAT WAS
ADDED IN AS AN AFTERTHOUGHT OR
SOMETHING.
I WASN'T SURE WHY THAT JUST
DIDN'T SHOW UP WITHIN
APPROPRIATE OR NOT APPROPRIATE
JUST FOR CONSISTENCY.
I WANTED THAT PARAGRAPH SPLIT
IN HALF AND PUT IN APPROPRIATE
AND NOT APPROPRIATE OR PUT
HIGHER UP OR SO I DON'T KNOW
WHY IT WAS DOWN THERE OF IT
JUST SEEMED INCONSISTENT BUT
THE I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT WAS
A POSSIBILITY.
>> WELL I ACTUALLY REMEMBER THE
ORIGINAL AUTHOR SAYING OH I
KIND OF ADDED JUST IN CASE YOU
EVER NEED IT BECAUSE SHE DID A
LOT OF WORK IN DETROIT.
YEAH.
HAD A REVIEW A LOT OF THAT.
RIGHT.
AND ACTUALLY A COUPLE OF THEM
HAVE COME UP SINCE MARIJUANA
SALES HAVE BEEN AROUND BUT NO
ONE FELT STRONGLY ENOUGH THAT
THEY WANTED TO ACTUALLY COME TO
YOU GUYS AND YEAH BUT WHEN IT
DID YEAH I HAVEN'T SEEN ONE
OF THOSE YET.
>> YEAH YEAH WE CAN DEFINITELY
INCORPORATE IT SO JUST A FEW
CHANGES FOR COMMERCIAL EARNINGS
AND CANOPY'S AND REMOVING
BANNERS FOR TWO OF THE SIGNS
SECTION.
>> I WAS CURIOUS DO WE HAVE ANY
BANNERS IN SO BANNERS ARE NOT
LEGAL UNDER SIGN CODE SO I JUST
REMOVE THEM ALL ALL OF THE
REFERENCES TO BANNERS THAT'S
WHY THERE'S ALL THESE RED
STRIKEOUTS HERE.
OK, WE DON'T HAVE TEMPORARY
SIGNS AND THAT'S EFFECTIVELY A
BANNERS ARE AND I THINK THAT
THERE MAY BE SOME HISTORIC
DISTRICTS WHERE THERE ARE MORE
COMMON BUT THEY'RE JUST NOT
COMMON HERE AND SOME PEOPLE
CALL BANNERS THE LIKE VERTICAL
THINGS ON ARMS WHICH IS NOT
WHAT THIS IS REFERRING TO.
THIS IS REFERRING TO WIDE FLAT
BANNERS ON THE FRONT OF A
BUILDING.
THERE'S A CAPRICORNS AND YEAH
IT'S JUST IT'S IT'S JUST
INCONGRUOUS WITH AND WE DON'T
HAVE ANY CODE AND WELL WE DON'T
HAVE ANY BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
ALLOWED YEAH OK SO IT'S NOT
IT'S NOT AN ISSUE WITH OR
OCCASIONALLY SOMEBODY STICKS UP
COMING SOON YOU KNOW I DO
COFFEE SHOP SURE THAT'S NOT
WHAT IT IS THAT'S A TEMPORARY
SIGN.
YEAH RIGHT RIGHT RIGHT.
GRAND OPENING.
YEAH.
>> WE JUST LOOK THE OTHER WAY
FOR THOSE AND THERE WASN'T MUCH
DISCUSSION OF CANOPY'S IN HERE
AND WE'VE HAD A COUPLE
OF CANOPY'S COME UP LIKE THE
ONE LIKE SLASH STARBUCKS
DOWNTOWN THEY HAVE A NEW
CANOPY.
THERE ARE A FEW OTHER ONES
DOWNTOWN.
NONE OF THEM ARE HISTORIC WITH
ONE EXCEPTION BUT JUST NEEDED
SOME LANGUAGE ABOUT THEM RIGHT
.
SO ADDING CANOPY'S REMOVING
BANNERS, SOME WORD CHANGES.
UM, WE'LL CHECK REQUIREMENTS
FOR HOW HIGH AND ORNING
CAN BE
SHOULD BE ABOVE THE SIDEWALK.
>> THAT ONE IS EIGHT FEET IF
YOU WANT TO MAKE A NOTE.
>> OK, SO WE'LL JUST WE'LL JUST
SAY NO NEED TO SAY YEAH RIGHT.
EIGHT FEET.
YEAH.
UM AND THEN JUST THE UPDATING
LANGUAGE AND AS WE TALKED ABOUT
JUST MAKING SURE THAT THIS
ALIGNS WITH SIGN CODE AND
INAPPROPRIATE TO HAVE PERMANENT
FREESTANDING SIGNS SO WE WILL
REMOVE REFERENCES TO STANDING
SIGN THE PHOTO HERE ON THE LEFT
MODA BLUE I DON'T EVEN REMEMBER
WHERE THAT WAS.
LOOKS LIKE IT MIGHT BE NICHOLS'
ARCADE BUT THAT'S THAT'S KIND
OF WHAT I WAS TALKING ABOUT
JARRED WITH THE CREATE BRACKETS
AND SUPPORTS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
OK,
I THINK WE SHOULD HAVE MORE
SIGNS PAINTED INTO WINDOWS HUH.
RIGHT.
I THINK JUST GENERALLY WORD
CHANGES AND THEN ADDING SOME
INAPPROPRIATE INSTALLING
JUNCTION BOXES FOR LITTLE SIGN
THAT THEY ARE NOT VISIBLE FROM
THE STREET AND LIMITING
ELECTRICAL CABLE RUNS.
AND WHILE PENETRATIONS FOR SIGN
LIGHTING UM DO WE WANT TO ADD
SOMETHING ABOUT DIGITAL SIGNS
IN WE DID IT WITH THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
OH YEAH I DON'T KNOW I DON'T
KNOW IF THEY'LL COME UP OR NOT
BUT WE HAVE WE HAVE A SPECIFIC
STANCE ON DIGITAL SIGNS.
UH, JUST MAKE A NOTE THAT WE
SHOULD PUT SOMETHING IN THERE.
YEAH YEAH.
I MEAN I WE AGREE IT'S
GENERALLY A CASE BY CASE.
YEAH YEAH.
YOU KNOW WE CAN SAY WE'RE
GENERALLY FINE GENERALLY FINE.
>> WELL I WOULD SAY IT'S
GENERALLY NOT APPROPRIATE RIGHT
RIGHT.
>> BUT WE HAVE MICHIGAN DENHA
IS VERY APPROPRIATE LOTS LOTS
OF THINGS COME TO US THAT ARE
IN THE NON-APPROVED THAT WE
HAVE TO LIKE OK CASE BY CASE.
YEAH BUT I DON'T THINK THAT I
THINK CASE BY CASE BASIS FOR
DELECTABLES CLEARLY.
YEAH.
SPEAK TO YES THERE IS A LOT
OF CODE ON THAT BECAUSE I
REMEMBER JOE WAS EDUCATING US
WHEN THE MICHIGAN THEATER WAS
PUTTING IN THAT SIGN AND IT
CAN'T CHANGE MORE THAN ONCE AN
HOUR LIKE THERE THERE'S ALL
SORTS OF STUFF.
>> YEAH STUFF THAT'S ON YOUR
SIGN YOU CAN'T DO A MOVIE ON
THAT BECAUSE I'M JUST LIKE HOW
DOES I MEAN WHO I MEAN THIS IS
A CODE QUESTION BUT LIKE WHO
EVEN LIKE FORCES THAT LIKE
WHO'S WATCHING THE SEE YOU YOU
COULD BE THERE WE ARE LIKE YEAH
I GUESS OKAY WE'RE GONNA LIKE
IT IF SOMEBODY IS WALKING
DOWNTOWN AND AS WELL THEY
SHOULDN'T HAVE WORDS YOU KNOW
IT'S THEY'RE THEY'RE SHOWING A
PREVIEW FOR SOMETHING COMING
SOON AND THEN THE ZONING PEOPLE
HAVE TO FOLLOW UP ON THAT SHOW
LIQUOR OK IT'S GOING TO CARRY
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL CHECK FOR MASONRY AND
IT'S I DON'T THINK THAT IS IN
THE APPENDIX.
SO THEN CLARIFYING SO INTERIOR
ELIMINATION STILL NO BACKLOTS
DON'T KNOW BUT HALO HALO AND
ANCELET MAYBE.
YEAH, HALO THAT HAS BEEN FINE
FOR YEARS.
I MEAN I'VE APPROVING THEM AT
THE STAFF LEVEL FOR YEARS AND
EDGEL ARE KIND OF NEW.
THEY DO LOOK KIND OF PLASTIC
KIND OF MODERN BUT I MEAN IF
THE ALTERNATIVE IS THAT THEY
JUST DON'T TURN THEM ON AND
THEY PUT THE SAME CHANNEL
LETTERS UP, I DON'T I DON'T
FEEL TOO STRONGLY ABOUT THEM
BEING EDUCATED.
I THINK THAT THAT'S OK.
I HAD TO LOOK TWICE AT THE
CHASE BANK SIGNS AT THE CORNER
YOU'RE ON AND AND MAIN STREET
BECAUSE THEY REALLY LOOKED LIKE
THEY WERE INTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED REALLY IT WAS JUST
THE EDGES THAT WERE TRANSLUCENT
.
SO I THINK THAT THAT'S GOING TO
NEED A LITTLE BIT MORE SO THEY
ARE INTERNALLY ELIMINATED BUT
THE FACE OF THE SIGN IS OPAQUE.
YEAH, YEAH.
THANKS.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
I MEAN I MEAN I GUESS I DON'T
WHEN IT COMES TO INTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED SIGN SIGN IT'S LIKE
I DON'T HAVE AN ISSUE WITH IT
LIKE I GUESS KIND OF LIKE IN
DETROIT WE'RE DEALING WITH THAT
LIKE OUR DESIGN OUR SIGN
GUIDELINES WHEN IT CAME TO LIKE
NO DEAL INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED
SIGNS YOU KIND OF MORSAL
REFERRED TO LIKE THE TERRIBLE
EIGHTIES AND NINETIES LIKE BACK
SIGN WERE YOU KNOW THE LETTERS
WERE KIND OF STUCK ON THE SIGN.
YEAH.
AND SIGNAGE TODAY LIKE
INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGNS
ESPECIALLY IN THE COMMERCIAL
SETTINGS SETTING THERE ARE
NOWHERE THEY'RE LIKE LIGHT
YEARS BEYOND THE OLD SCHOOL
ETERNALLY ILLUMINATED LIKE THE
BOX.
>> TERRIBLE.
YEAH, I KNOW IT'S JUST
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT THAT I
THINK I MEAN I MEAN WHEN YOU GO
DOWNTOWN IN ANN ARBOR THERE'S
SO MUCH SIGNAGE SO LIKE KIND
OF VERY IN IT'S NOT LIKE IT'S
LIKE YEAH ALL EXTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED SIGNS ARE ALL WOOD
OR WHATEVER IT'S JUST THERE'S
SUCH A VARIETY THAT YEAH I KNOW
IT'S SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT
THAT.
>> YEAH YEAH I'M A LITTLE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE SUPERCHEAP
CHANNEL LETTER.
YEAH.
INTERNAL ILLUMINATION WHICH IS
SORT OF THE THE REPLACEMENT FOR
THE BAD BOX SIGN RIGHT NOW
WE'VE GOT BAD CHANNEL BUT WE
HAVE ALSO BEEN SOME CHANNEL
LETTER SIGNS THAT ARE PRETTY
COOL LOOKING RIGHT.
SO I THINK THAT THE BLANKET
STATEMENT WAS TO JUST GET RID
OF ALL OF THAT, GOT TO WORRY
ABOUT IT BUT WE COULD CERTAINLY
OPEN IT UP A LITTLE BIT AND SAY
IF YOU WANT TO BE CONSIDERED
FOR INTERNAL ILLUMINATION YOU
HAVE TO GO TO THE COMMISSION.
ALL RIGHT.
AND I GUESS LIKE JUST A GENERAL
SENSE SO THESE GUIDELINES
ESSENTIALLY ARE THEY LIKE IF
YOU MEET THE GUIDELINES YOUR
PROJECT STAFF APPROVED OF NOT
IT COMES TO THE COMMISSION AND
THE COMMISSION COULD STILL
DECIDE TO APPROVE SOMETHING
EVEN IF IT DOESN'T MEET THE
GUIDELINES OR IS IT LIKE
LITERALLY IF IT DOESN'T MEET
THE GUIDELINES WE WON'T APPROVE
IT.
>> WHAT IF IT DOESN'T IF I
THINK SOMETHING DOESN'T MEET
THE GUIDELINES OR MARRYAT
OF THINGS IT DOESN'T MEET THE
CRITERIA.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO STAFF
APPROVE IT OBVIOUSLY AT THAT
POINT THEY CAN COME TO YOU GUYS
SAY HEY, WE THINK IT MEETS YOUR
GUIDELINES AND HERE'S WHY YOU
CAN DECIDE.
YEAH, YEAH THAT SOUNDS
REASONABLE.
ARE CLEARLY THAT'S NOT WHAT WE
WERE INTENDING HERE RIGHT.
BUT IS IT I MEAN I GUESS IN
THIS CASE YOU JUST I GUESS
FELLOW COMMISSIONERS IF
SOMETHING DOESN'T MEET A
GUIDELINE HE TO ME A GUIDELINE
IS LIKE OK, I MEAN I GUESS IT'S
DIFFERENT FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES
WHICH YOU'VE GOT TO MEET
GUIDELINE THE GUIDELINE IT'S
NOT A RULE.
YES.
HOLD RIGHT.
AND THAT'S WHY OCCASIONALLY YOU
ALL SAY YEAH, IT DOESN'T MEET
THAT GUIDELINE BUT IT MEETS THE
INTENT OF THE ORDINANCE.
YEP.
SO WE THINK IT'S OK RIGHT.
MEETS THE STANDARD.
YEAH.
THAT CAN BE APPLIED TO ANYTHING
WE'RE DESIGN GUIDELINES RIGHT.
>> RIGHT.
SO I GUESS LIKE THEORETICALLY
IF THIS LANGUAGE STILL STAYS
THE SAME REGARDING INTERNALLY
ILLUMINATED SIGNAGE I MEAN WE
COULD STILL GET A SIGN THAT
COMES TO US THAT WE AS A GROUP
THINK OK, THIS DOESN'T MEET THE
GUIDELINES BUT WE THINK IT
MEETS THE STANDARDS AND WE'RE
GOING TO AND THAT HAS HAPPENED
ONCE EVERY COUPLE OF YEARS.
SOMEBODY HAS A LIKE A YOU IT'S
ALWAYS A CORPORATE BOX THAT
THEY WANT TO USE A COUPLE
WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN FOUND TO BE
PERFECTLY ACCEPTABLE.
OK, YOU KNOW, LIKE OH IT'S
OPAQUE, IT'S BACKLIT BUT THEN
THERE'S THIS TRANSLUCENT THING
IN THE MIDDLE THAT'S THEIR LOGO
AND SOME WORDS AND IT LOOKS
PRETTY TASTEFUL AND THEY SHOWED
US ONE THAT WAS ON THIS OTHER
BUILDING AND YOU KNOW CHICAGO
OR BIRMINGHAM OR WHATEVER AND
IT LOOKS GREAT AND IF IT'S
GOING TO BE JUST LIKE THAT, NO
PROBLEM THAT MEETS THE INTENT
OF THE DESIGN.
DR. BUT WE WOULD ALSO BE
OPENING THE DOOR TO HAVING TO
SAY NO TO THE 30 FOOT LONG
CHANNEL LETTERS OF A NEW JUICE
PLACE, THE NOVELTY THAT THEY
WANT CUT ALL THE WAY ACROSS THE
FRONT OF THE BUILDING.
RIGHT.
AND YEAH, GOOD POINT.
GOOD.
REALLY GOOD POINT.
YEAH.
GUIDELINES DO HELP KIND OF GET
RID OF CUT THROUGH A LOT
OF THAT.
>> YEAH YEAH.
OKAY.
PEOPLE CAN PROPOSE WHATEVER
THEY WANT.
YES YES YES YEAH.
AND I ALWAYS TELL PEOPLE THAT
YOU KNOW AND IT'S IT'S TRUE
THAT THE PEOPLE THAT WANT TO
PUT UP THE THE CHEAP CHANNEL
THAT ARE SITES THAT ARE FAST
THAT THEY CAN PUT UP RIGHT AWAY
THEY DON'T WANT TO COME TO THE
DC SO THEY'RE JUST GOING TO
MAKE A DIFFERENT PLAN.
IT'S THE PEOPLE THAT ARE REALLY
SET THIS IS MY IMAGE AND THIS
IS WHAT I WANT MY BUILDING TO
LOOK LIKE AND THAT'S FINE TO GO
TO THE DC THEN AND ASK THEM
USUALLY PEOPLE GOTCHA.
YEAH OK YEAH IT'S GOING TO TALK
ABOUT NEON.
YEAH.
SO NEON NEON IS NOW STAFF
APPROVABLE WE DON'T ADDRESS IT
ANYWHERE IN THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES REALLY AND WE'VE HAD
SOME KIND OF UNIQUE COST A
LITTLE MORE SO YOU USUALLY HAVE
A BETTER DESIGNER INVOLVED AND
NOT BETTER BUT YOU KNOW MORE
CREATIVE OFTEN AND SO I HAVE
STAFF APPROVED A FEW NEON SIGNS
IN THE RECENT PAST.
ONE IS COMING IN.
I'VE BEEN WORKING WITH AN
APPLICANT WHERE THEY WANT TO
USE METAL CHANNEL LETTERS WITH
ME AND INSIDE THE LETTERS WHAT
WITH
NO FACE AND I THINK IT'S
INTENDED TO SORT OF BOUNCE
THE
NEHAD OFF OF THE METAL LETTERS
AND MAKE IT A LITTLE MORE WHICH
SOUNDS KIND OF COOL.
YEAH.
AND I I'M PLANNING STAFF
APPROVE THAT BUT DO YOU GUYS
HAVE ANY THOUGHTS ON THE END?
WE SHOULD PUT SOMETHING IN HERE
THAT WE THINK THAT IS OK OR NOT
OK CASE BY CASE I MEAN
GENERALLY I THINK IT'S GREAT.
I THINK IT'S COOL AND LIVELY
AND INTERESTING TO LOOK AT DO
YOU HAVE TO TOP SHEILD BEYOND
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE YOU DON'T FOR
THE SAME COAT INTEREST.
YEAH YEAH THE SAME CODE MAKES
CONCESSIONS FOR THINGS LIKE
GREEN LIGHT BULBS.
YEAH THAT WAS INSIDE I DON'T
KNOW.
>> YEAH.
WHAT DO YOU WHAT WOULD YOU
THINK WE WOULD SAY ABOUT IT.
>> I MEAN I WOULD SAY THAT IT'S
GENERALLY ACCEPTABLE TO HAVE
LIKE LIKE TO SAY NEHAD IS AN
APPROPRIATE TYPE OF SIGN.
DO WE SAY THAT FOR OTHER DO WE
HAVE A BULLET POINT WHERE WE
SAY WHAT TYPES OF LIT
ILLUMINATED SIGNS ARE
APPROPRIATE BECAUSE IT WOULD BE
WEIRD TO JUST CALL OUT BUT IF
WE'RE CALLING ABOUT ALONG WITH
THE OTHER TYPES OF APPROPRIATE
ILLUMINATED SIGNS THAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL.
>> YEAH, THAT ONE MARIJANA
COULD JUST SAY INSTALLING
SIGNAGE THAT IS LIT EXTERNALLY
BY FIXTURES ABOVE THE SIGN OR
USING NEON.
>> YEAH.
PROBABLY GOES IN THERE CALL IT
BECAUSE OTHERWISE IT COULD BE
CONFLATED WITH INTERNAL SIGNS
WHICH WERE SAYING NO TO YEAH.
SO YOU COULD HAVE TO MAKE THAT
DISTINCTION.
THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
OK MAYBE MAYBE THAT JUST TOOK
CARE OF IT.
THANK YOU.
WELL YEAH OK YEAH I FEEL LIKE
THAT THAT IS A BULLET POINT
ABOUT EXTERNALLY EXTERNALLY LED
SIGNS BUT I THINK WE PROBABLY
SHOULD HAVE ANOTHER BULLET
POINT THAT'S ABOUT INTERNALLY.
IT SEEMS LIKE A DIFFERENT THING
TO ME.
I MEAN YEAH YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
USE THE EXTERNALLY LIGHT THE
SIDE RIGHT.
THAT'S MORE OF IT IS INTERNAL
ILLUMINATION OR SELF
ILLUMINATION.
WE CAN WE CAN THINK ABOUT IT.
YEAH, BECAUSE WE'LL HAVE TO
MESS AROUND WITH HOW WE WANT
THE WORDING FOR INTERNAL
ILLUMINATION AND IF WE'RE OK
WITH THAT I MEAN WHERE I THINK
IT SEEMS WE'RE GENERALLY OK
WITH AGILENT OR HALO LIT SO I
THINK WE'LL JUST HAVE TO PLAY
AROUND WITH HOW TO MAKE CLEAR
WHAT KIND OF INTERNAL
LIMITATION IS OK AND WHAT KIND
ISN'T.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
AND THEN I JUST HAD A QUESTION
ABOUT THE WORD FLUORESCENT.
I THINK THAT WE HAD A
DISCUSSION ABOUT IT WHEN WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
UM, I CAN GO BACK AND LOOK AT
THAT IF IF NO ONE REMEMBERS
THAT I THINK WE DIDN'T LIKE THE
WORD FLUORESCENT IS THAT I WAS
JUST I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT IT
MEANT AND WAS LIKE IT MEANS
COLORS AND I WAS LIKE OH OK.
I JUST DIDN'T KNOW FLUORESCENT
IT JUST SEEMS OBVIOUS NOW BUT
YEAH IT WAS CONFUSED LIKE WITH
ME FLUORESCENT AND TALKING
ABOUT LIGHTING I'M JUST
THINKING ABOUT LIKE FLUORESCENT
LIGHTING LIKE TUBES.
YEAH COLORS BUT THEN YOU SAY
NEON AND NEON ALSO LIGHTING AND
IT JUST SEEMED WEIRD THAT WE
RECALLING THAT OUT AS LIKE A
THAT'S IN APPROPRIATE I THINK
IT ACTUALLY AT ONE POINT SAID
FLUORESCENT OR REFLECTIVE
FINISHES GOOD.
I THINK THAT ALSO SAID THE NEXT
ONE SAYS REFLECTIVENESS
INSTALLING SIGNS THAT USE
HIGHLY REFLECTIVE MATERIALS ARE
DIFFICULT TO READ.
YEAH.
SO I MEAN YEAH YEAH.
>> I MEAN A SIGN GUY IS GOING
TO READ FLUORESCENT DIFFERENTLY
THAT A LIGHTING GUY YEAH.
SO I THINK IT'S OK UNLESS YOU
UNLESS SOMEONE TAKES YOUR CALL
IF YOU HAVE A FLUORESCENT COLOR
IN YOUR LOGO I MEAN I JUST IT'S
I JUST WOULD BE JUST SURPRISED
WE ARE SAYING THAT'S NOT
APPROPRIATE WITH ALL THE OTHER
STUFF THAT YEAH.
>> YOU CAN DO WELL I MEAN IS IT
OK TO TAKE THE WHOLE SIDEBAND
ABOVE A STOREFRONT PAINTED NEON
ORANGE FLUORESCENT ORANGE AND
THEN HAVE FLUORESCENT YELLOW
LETTERS ON IT AND FLUORESCENT
PINK ACCENTS AND HAS HAPPENED
IT'S HAPPENED YEAH AND MAYBE IT
DOES BECAUSE THAT'S THE
BUSINESS THAT'S GOING TO NOT
STICK AROUND VERY LONG BUT
MAYBE OH MAYBE MAYBE IT'S
LIVELY AND WONDERFUL AND DRAWS
ATTENTION TO ITSELF.
>> IS IT WEIRD THAT WE REGULATE
COLORS FOR SCIENCE AND NOT FOR
BUILDINGS.
>> YES.
YEAH YEAH PROBABLY YEAH BECAUSE
IT'S LIKE MCDONALD'S YOUR
GOLDEN ARCHES ARE TWO GOLD.
>> YEAH THAT WOULD BE
FLOURESCENT YOU JUST TAKE IT
OUT IF YOU GUYS THINK IT'S
OVERLY RESTRICTIVE.
THAT'S A GOOD POINT THOUGH
ABOUT BUILDINGS VERSUS SCIENCE.
YEAH I MEAN I I WOULD BE OK
REMOVING IT REMOVING
FLUORESCENT OR REMOVING ANY
OF THIS USING MORE IN THREE OR
FOUR COLORS OF THE THREE OR
FOUR IN KEEPING OR DELETING THE
LEADING DOESN'T GET RID OF THAT
WHOLE BULLET POINT INSTALL THE
SIGNS THAT ARE OVERLY COMPLEX.
GOSH I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH THAT'S REAL GRAY AREA
OBVIOUSLY.
RIGHT.
BUT THERE'S A LOT OF JUDGMENT
INVOLVED.
YEAH.
THOSE WORDS SO IT'S IT'S HARD
TO I DON'T I DON'T THINK I
DON'T THINK WE SHOULD LEAVE
THAT IN THERE.
I THINK WE CAN'T WE'RE NOT
ALLOWED TO REGULATE THE CONTENT
OF A SIDE OK WE CAN REGULATE
THE SIZE AND THE PLACEMENT BUT
I THINK WE SHOULD JUST GET RID
OF THAT WHOLE BULLET POINT THAT
FEELS RIGHT.
YEAH.
AND MAYBE THE NEXT ONE TO
ALLOWED HIGHLY REFLECTIVE
MATERIALS THAT ARE DIFFICULT TO
READ.
WELL, I MEAN HIGHLY WE DON'T
WANT HIGHLY REFLECTIVE
MATERIALS DO WE OR DO WE NOT
CARE?
I MEAN IT DOES SEEM
COUNTERINTUITIVE TO INSTALL A
SIGN FOR YOUR BUSINESS THAT'S
DIFFICULT TO READ.
>> YEAH.
YES.
I THINK MAYBE READING IN JUST A
CONDESCENDING HIGHLY REFLECTIVE
MATERIALS AND GETTING RID
OF THAT ARE DIFFICULT TO READ
BECAUSE YOU DON'T WANT SOMEBODY
THAT PUTS UP A MIRROR WITH
LETTERS ON IT FOR THEIR COOL
SIDE BECAUSE THAT'S NOT GOOD
FOR CARS GOING BY LIGHT
BOUNCING OFF OF IT.
THAT'S A LITTLE DIFFERENT THAN
CONTENT.
YEAH.
YEAH MATERIAL WEAKNESS
MATERIAL.
YEAH.
>> OPINION ABOUT OK BUT OK
ANYTHING ELSE FOR SCIENCE.
I'M NOT APPROPRIATE INSTALLING
SEVERAL SIGNS TO ADVERTISE A
SINGLE BUSINESS I FEEL LIKE I
SEE THAT ON EVERY STOREFRONT.
SO IS THAT IS THAT ACTUALLY
SOMETHING WE CARE ABOUT.
>> PROBABLY NOT YES.
I'LL GIVE YOU THE QUARTER YOU
HAVE A QUARTER LAG AFTER
SEVERAL SIGNS ON THE RIGHT SIDE
ON THE LEFT SIDE YEAH.
>> IT'S PROBABLY COVERED BY THE
AMOUNT OF SIGNAGE THAT YOU'RE
ALLOWED IN CODE TO YEAH YEAH
YEAH.
THAT CAN PROBABLY JUST GO AWAY.
I MEAN IF WE WANT TO MINIMIZE
IT WE'D HAVE TO BE A LOT MORE
SPECIFIC THAN THAT AND I DON'T
KNOW DO WE WANT TO MINIMIZE
LIKE DO WE LIKE DOES THE SIGN
CODE GIVE YOU TOO MUCH SIGNAGE
FOR YOUR HISTORIC STOREFRONT OR
IS IT HASN'T SEEMED LIKE IT'S
BEEN A PROBLEM?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S BEEN A
PROBLEM.
YEAH, BUT THEN DO WE HAVE ANY
DOES THAT CHANGE FEELINGS ABOUT
PROVIDING IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
PROVIDE A CONSOLIDATED
DIRECTORY LISTING SIGN FOR ALL
OF THE OFFICES THE BUILDING TO
REDUCE THE TOTAL NUMBER
OF SIGNS ON THE BUILDING?
I THINK THAT'S STILL OK.
THAT WAS PUT IN THERE
SPECIFICALLY FOR THE BUILDING
ON EAST LIBERTY OR THE ANTELOPE
ANTIQUES WAS DOWNSTAIRS.
THERE'S A SUSHI PLACE UPSTAIRS
NOW.
USED TO BE THAT CHINESE PLACE
THAT THEY THEY HAVE MULTIPLE
BUSINESSES ON ONE SIDE.
>> RIGHT.
AND THAT WAY NOT EVERYBODY IS
TRYING TO PUT A SIGN UP WHICH I
THINK IS GOOD.
YEAH.
PUT THEM ON OR THE KOREATOWN
MERCHANTS SIGN THAT YOU SEE
HERE.
>> THIS IS NOT AN HISTORIC
DISTRICT BECAUSE THE IDEA FEELS
HISTORIC.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
UM, EXTERIOR MATERIALS METAL UH
UM I THINK IT'S BECAUSE WE DO
HAVE EXTERIOR MATERIALS, WOOD
AND FIGHTING AND THEN MASONRY
THAT'S INCLUDED IN RESIDENTIAL
UM AND SO I GUESS THAT'S A
QUESTION OF DO WE AND I HAD
THIS QUESTION ALSO FOR
MECHANICAL WHICH IS AFTER THIS
WHICH IS DO WE WANT THEM TO BE
SEPARATE IN COMMERCIAL AND
RESIDENTIAL OR SHOULD WE JUST
HAVE ALL OF THESE INCLUDED IN
CHAPTER THREE ALL HISTORIC
PROPERTIES?
IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
WE NEED TO REFERENCE IT AT
LEAST BECAUSE IT'S JUST WEIRD
THAT WE'RE JUST MENTIONING
METAL HERE AND NOT NOT SAY
ANYTHING ABOUT WOOD STONE BRICK
,ET CETERA.
>> YEAH.
SO I THINK IT YEAH IT WOULD BE
WEIRD.
IT'D BE YOU DON'T WANT TO
DUPLICATE IT THAT WOULD BE HARD
TO MAINTAIN BUT YOU DON'T WANT
THEM TO MISS IT AND SAY WELL
IT'S NOT IN THE COMMERCIAL
SECTIONS IT'S MAYBE WE
CONSOLIDATE EXTERIOR MATERIALS
AND THEN AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE RESIDENTIAL CHAPTER AND
THE COMMERCIAL CHAPTER SAY SEE
ALSO YOU KNOW THIS CHAPTER
OR
NEXT YEAR YOUR MATERIALS AND
THIS CHAPTER FOR WINDOWS I
DON'T KNOW ARE WE JUST MAKE
REDUNDANT?
YEAH.
IS THERE WHATEVER YOU GET IN
HERE BEFORE YOU GET TO THE
METAL HARD THING FOR OTHER
EXTERIOR MATERIALS THAT ARE
ALSO YOU KNOW, SEE THE CHAPTER
ON THE PRESIDENTIAL.
YEAH.
IF THIS IS MEANT TO BE MAINLY
DIGITAL PRODUCT MAYBE IT
DOESN'T MATTER IF YOU DON'T GET
IT.
YEAH YEAH RIGHT.
>> SO AND THERE'S PROBABLY
THINGS THROUGHOUT THAT CAN BE
SECTIONS THROUGHOUT THAT CAN BE
DUPLICATED IN BOTH THE
PRESIDENT AND COMMERCIAL AND
ALL HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
I MEAN THIS IS LIKE A REAL DEEP
DOVE ON METAL AND I DON'T KNOW
IF WE HAVE THAT REALLY FOR THE
OTHER MATERIALS YOU KNOW WE
HAVE LIKE SIDING OR SOMETHING
BUT WE DON'T SAY LIKE WOOD I
DON'T THINK IN THE RESIDENTIAL
RIGHT.
WE DON'T CALL OUT LIKE SOME
THIS IS I THINK WE DO.
>> YEAH.
OK, YEAH I DON'T KNOW AND I
THINK WE DO IT WITH MASONRY TOO
BECAUSE THERE'S LIKE ONLY WASH
THIS PRESSURE AND THEY'RE
BLASTING THAT KIND OF STUFF.
>> UM YEAH THAT SHOULD
DEFINITELY COMMERCIAL SECTION.
YEAH DON'T PAINT YOUR MASONRY.
>> YEAH YEAH IT NEEDS TO BE IN
BOTH AND SO IT'S JUST KIND OF A
FORMATTING THING RIGHT
WHATEVER.
>> YEAH THAT'S WE'LL JUST MAKE
SURE THAT AND ANY SO I GUESS
OVER EXPLAINING IS BETTER AND
WE CAN WE CAN AT THE SAME
SECTIONS AGAIN UM BECAUSE THAT
WAS MY QUESTION WITH MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT SO WE'LL KEEP
MECHANICAL AND UM IN BOTH AND
THEN BUILDING EQUIPMENT SECTION
TYTO WELL WE'RE CALLING THIS
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT BUT IF YOU
READ THROUGH IT IT'S IT'S
MECHANICAL ELECTRIC ALL
PLUMBING MEDIA IT'S REALLY LIKE
ANYTHING THAT'S ADDED ANY
EQUIPMENT IT'S NOT IT'S NOT
CORRECT TO CALL IT MECHANICAL
EQUIPMENT IF WE'RE GOING TO ADD
THE OTHER STUFF AND SOMEONE
MIGHT SEE MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT
BUT THEY'RE DEALING WITH SOLAR
INVERTER AND THEY KNOW THAT
THAT'S NOT MECHANICAL SO
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO READ THIS
SECTION OR SOMETHING.
SO WE NEED TO BROADEN THE
CATEGORY.
DO YOU HAVE A PREFERENCE FOR
BUILDING EQUIPMENT VERSUS
MECHANICAL ELECTRICAL PLUMBING?
>> I THINK THIS WASN'T INTENDED
TO BE PLUMBING BUT IT
REFERENCES PIPES BECAUSE PEOPLE
RUN CABLES AND THINGS THROUGH
PIPES SOMETIMES ON THE EXTERIOR
BUILDINGS.
SO WE JUST NEED TO CLARIFY
MAYBE ADD PLUMBING.
YEAH, YOU CAN I WOULD BE FINE
WITH WELL YEAH THEN THERE'S
LIKE FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
OR SOMETHING WHICH ISN'T
MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL OR
PLUMBING.
I THINK THERE'S A WHOLE YOU
KNOW AN IMPOSSIBLE COMMITMENT.
YEAH.
SO YOU COULD SAY LIKE FOR
EXAMPLE BUILDING EQUIPMENT FOR
EXAMPLE MECHANICAL ELECTRICAL
PLUMBING OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
YEAH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN THEY SHOULD INTRODUCE
MACING ANOIS THAT ARE
INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE CHARACTER
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
OH MACING I JUST THAT'S NOT THE
RIGHT WORD.
>> THIS THIS SENTENCE HERE OH
OH THEY SHOULD NOT INTRODUCE
MACING OR NOISE THAT IS
INCOMPATIBLE.
I MEAN IT'S A NOISE OR
SOMETHING THEY SHOULD NOT
INTRODUCE THE INCORRECT WELL
NOISE TOO I MEAN YEAH.
>> NOISE I WAS I WAS LIKE
SURPRISED BY IT.
>> DID YOU KNOW THAT WE COULD
REGULATE THAT REGULATE NOISE.
>> YEAH I DON'T THINK WE WANT
TO BE IN THAT BUSINESS SO GET
RID OF NOISE AND YEAH I WOULD
CHANGE MACING TO ELEMENTS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
YEAH THINGY'S SOMETHING
TECHNICAL WORK
RIGHT THEN THAT
IS THE LAST PAGE.
ANY OTHER THOUGHTS ABOUT
COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES IN
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
I LOVE THIS PICTURE OF IT'S A
BEAUTIFUL BUILDING WITH DENHA
WITH THE KIDS SO IT IT'S JUST
THE PERFECT PHOTO.
IT'S LIKE PERFECTLY CENTERED IN
THE BUILDING.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT MADE ME
LAUGH WHEN I SAW THAT ONE MAYBE
TO KEEP THAT ONE RIGHT.
THAT'S LIKE WHAT COME ON.
ALL RIGHT.
OK YEAH WE'RE GETTING WE'RE
GETTING DOWN TO FINAL CHAPTERS
SO THANKS FOR ALL THE WORK THAT
YOU'RE DOING TO GET THROUGH
THIS THING AND MOVE ON TO
RETREAT SCHEDULING.
ABSOLUTELY.
OK, OUR RETREAT SCHEDULING IS A
LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT BECAUSE I
JUST HAD TO KICK MYSELF OUT
OF ONE OF THE DATES THAT I
PROPOSED.
>> YES.
SOMETHING CAME UP UH SO UH I
DON'T REALLY I THINK APRIL
TWENTY SIXTH IS TOO SOON.
I DON'T THINK WE CAN PUT
TOGETHER A WHOLE RETREAT IN A
WEEK AND A HALF WITH EVERYTHING
ELSE THAT'S GOING ON RIGHT NOW
.
UH MY THIRD DAY THIRD IS NO
LONGER GOING TO WORK.
THAT SEEMED LIKE A YEAH IT WAS
IT WAS UH MAY 10TH DOESN'T WORK
FOR ANYBODY REALLY ONE OR TWO
PEOPLE AND THEN THE SEVENTEENTH
EVEN MARIANA AND I DON'T GO TO
THE CONFERENCE WHICH WE DON'T
KNOW FOREGOING OR NOT WE'D
STILL LOSE BEN AND STEVE ON
THAT DAY SO WE CAN DO ONE OR
TWO THINGS WE CAN LOOK FARTHER
OUT.
WE CAN LOOK AT JUNE, WE CAN
DELAY THE WHOLE THING TILL THE
FALL WHEN YOUR STAFF IS NOT
WRESTLING WITH A WORDS AND
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS AND SPRING
WORK IN A BOAT I MEAN SERIOUSLY
YOU HAVE TO FALL WILL BE MUCH
EASIER.
>> YEAH YEAH.
WE I ALWAYS I ALWAYS START TO
SCHEDULE IT TOO LATE AND THEN
IT CREEPS IN.
>> I MEAN IS THERE SOMETHING IN
OUR BYLAWS THAT SAYS WE HAVE TO
DO THIS AT A CERTAIN TIME JUST
AS WE NEED TO DO IT?
SO I'M I'M HAPPY TO TRIFLE AND
THINGS ARE MUCH CALMER WHEN IT
MAKES SENSE TO PUSH A LATE FALL
SO THAT WE CAN PULL TOGETHER
OUR ANNUAL REPORT AND DO ALL
THAT STUFF LIKE POTENTIALLY
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
YEAH.
>> IT JUST HAS TO BE DONE IN
THIS CALENDAR YEAR.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
HEARING NO OBJECTIONS.
WE'LL COME BACK FROM THIS IN
THE FALL.
THANK YOU.
SURE.
OK OK WE'LL MOVE ON TO APPROVAL
OF THE MINUTES.
DID EVERYONE HAVE A CHANCE TO
LOOK AT THE MARCH 13TH TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE HGC MEETING MINUTES
THERE IS SORT OF A UNIQUE ITEM
IN THERE WHERE WE HAD ONE
HEARING WHERE THERE WAS EMOTION
BUT IT WASN'T SECONDED BECAUSE
OF LIKE I DON'T KNOW THE
INTERRUPTION OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT BUT IT WAS TAKEN CARE
OF APPARENTLY THAT WAS ALLOWED
SO WE DIDN'T HAVE TO POSTPONE
THOSE POOR PEOPLE FOR ANOTHER
MONTH.
>> BUT THAT IS REFLECTED IN THE
MINUTES.
SO LET'S APPROVE THEM IF
THERE'S NO OBJECTION, I DON'T
SEE ONE SO LET'S SAY THAT THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED AS
PRESENTED.
THANK YOU TO COURTNEY MANOR FOR
PROVIDING THE MINUTES AND THE
AGENDA THIS EVENING.
ARE THERE ANY REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS'?
OK, THEN WE'LL MOVE ON TO
ASSIGNMENTS.
THAT'S FOR THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
ON MONDAY, MAY 5TH.
IT'S A FIVE P.M. AND THE
MEETING IS THURSDAY MAY 8TH.
SO WHO WOULD LIKE TO VOLUNTEER
?
I COULD DO AS WELL.
GREAT.
THANK YOU THEN TO HEAR A NOISE
FROM DOWN THERE.
YES, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
WE ONLY HAD ONE THIS MONTH SO
YEAH YOU GUYS NEED TO COME BACK
OK THANK YOU BOTH FOR THAT K
REPORTS FROM STAFF ARE THERE
ANY REPORTS FROM STAFF?
MY ONLY REPORT IS THAT WE DO
HAVE A NEW APPLICANT FOR THE
VACANCY AND I'VE ALERTED THE
POWERS THAT BE AND IF YOU KNOW
THE MAYOR OR CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS TELL THEM THAT WE NEED
A NEW MEMBER.
>> THERE'S A THERE'S A LOT
OF APPLICANTS ARE THEY NOT
MOVING ON IT OR SOMETHING OR.
NO, I JUST I JUST WANT IT TO
QUICKLY I DON'T WANT ANY DELAYS
BECAUSE IF FOR ANY REASON THIS
PERSON IS REJECTED THEN WE NEED
TO KEEP LOOKING.
KEEP GOING.
OK, YEAH THAT'S IT FOR ME
THOUGH.
OK QUICK QUESTION IF YEAH.
OH WHAT DO YOU GOT.
>> I JUST I HEARD FROM STAFF I
WANTED TO CLARIFY WE TALKED
ABOUT THE ANNUAL REPORT LAST
TIME AND THERE WAS A QUESTION
ABOUT HALF OF APPLICATIONS
BEING DENIED AND SO WE DID GO
BACK AND LOOK AT IT AND NOTHING
WAS EVER DENIED.
UM, HALF OF APPLICATIONS WERE
POSTPONED A COUPLE OF TIMES BUT
THEN THEY WERE APPROVED AFTER A
POSTPONEMENT.
SO EVERYTHING WAS APPROVED
.
>> THERE WAS JUST THE
POSTPONEMENT IN THERE.
COOL.
THANKS FOR CHECKING THOUGH.
AND AGAIN A LITTLE SURPRISING
TO LEARN THAT BUT IT'S IT'S
GOOD TO KNOW.
YEAH, OK, I'LL JUST A QUICK
QUESTION FOR STAFF.
SO IN THE HYPOTHETICAL SCENARIO
THAT WE HAVE HISTORIC WINDOWS
THAT ARE BEING COVERED FROM THE
INSIDE, WHAT IS THE WHAT ARE
THE STANDARD SAY ABOUT THAT THE
STANDARD SAY IT'S NONE OF OUR
BUSINESS BECAUSE IT'S ON THE
INTERIOR.
YEAH, OK.
I DO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE THIS IS
THIS IS NOT AS INFREQUENT AS
YOU MIGHT THINK.
I DO ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO PAINT
THE WATER COVERS THE DRYWALL
RED OR BLACK OR PUT SOMETHING
BLACK BEHIND A GLASS SO THAT
LIKE THE AP TODAY EXPLAINED IT
JUST LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE SEEING A
DARK ROOM.
I DON'T THERE IS THERE IS ONE
ON THE OLD FOURTH WARD THAT'S
THERE'S A FLOWERY CURTAIN AND
THEN THERE'S THE BOARD BEHIND
IT AND IT DOESN'T LOOK GOOD.
YEAH, I WAS WONDERING IF
THERE'S LIKE SOMETHING ABOUT
THAT FROM LIKE A BUSINESS
SCIENCE STANDPOINT IT
DETERIORATES THE WINDOW FASTER
OR SOMETHING BECAUSE IT'S NOT
BUT I GUESS IF IT'S ALL SEALED
UP THEN MAYBE THAT'S FINE IN
TODAY'S CASE THEY'RE ACTUALLY
GOING TO REPLACE A WINDOW
BEFORE THEY COVER IT ON THE
INSIDE BECAUSE IT'S AN OLD
CRUMMY WINDOW AND I MEAN NOT AN
OLD WINDOW BUT A CRUMMY
REPLACEMENT WINDOW FROM THIRTY
YEARS AGO AND SO THEY WANT TO
REPLACE IT MATCHES THE OTHER
ONES FIRST WHICH SOUNDS NICE.
YEAH.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT
QUESTION.
>> OK ARE THERE L CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
>> ANY CONCERNS I'M HEARING I
MEAN IN GENERAL YEAH JUST
SPECIFIC TO A DISTRICT
COMMISSION COMMISSIONER SMITH
NOW OK WELL IN THAT CASE WE'LL
MOVE ON TO ADJOURNMENT.
>> I ADJOURNED THE APRIL 10TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE HISTORIC
DISTRICT MISSION MEETING AT
EIGHT TWENTY PM